Data scientists can come from a variety of backgrounds,
with educational experiences that span both technical and non-technical disciplines.
Successful data scientists typically possess some mix of expertise in coding,
statistical methodology, communication, business strategy,
machine learning, and quantitative reasoning.
As such, fields that require deep training in one or more of
these areas serve as common educational backgrounds for data scientists.
In my own work building and leading data science practices and initiatives,
I've employed professionals with training in computer science, statistics, mathematics,
engineering, physics, economics, and psychology;
each of which requires deep skills in one or more of the key areas I mentioned before.
This is not an exclusive list however.
Even individuals who did not complete training in one of these areas
can become a successful data scientist by picking up the skills elsewhere.
In fact, one very successful team member of mine is
a classically trained musician who found an interest dabbling in software development,
which he eventually leveraged to become a self-taught data scientist.
Data science can bring tremendous benefits to a business.
Data science can aid and better decision-making,
empowering executives to act by giving better insight into potential outcomes.
Data science can improve efficiency of
operations and help lower costs across the business.
Data science can enable better delivery of
a business' products and services to its customers.
Data science can help identify new opportunities for the business,
new products, services, and ways of providing support.
Data science can provide insight into the success of marketing campaigns,
allowing more targeted efforts that bring a greater return on investment.
Finally, data science can facilitate better personalization across customer experiences.
Today, customers demand tailored experiences more than ever,
and data science provides one set of tools to help businesses deliver on such demands.
Now that you have a better understanding of the importance of
data science and who data scientists are,
it's time to put your knowledge to a test.